All right, so the next part
will be a little bit hard, but
I think you can try to give it a shot.
Do you think you can find
your SHA in the Git folder.
I want you to take a look, go in there.
Remember the SHA is what
you're looking for.
Just do a little perusing on your own for
a minute.
I'll give you another hint.
The first two characters
of the SHA are important.
So look around, maybe try the find
command, find is a great one.
It'll list out a bunch of files for you.
All right,
I'll just kind of start doing it.
So if I go like this, find,
remember when I did it before,
there wasn't a ton of files,
but if I do it again,
notice now we have a whole bunch
of stuff inside of Objects now.
And not only that, but there's my 87.
There's my 21a, look at that thing.
That's my commit, right?
That looks like my commit.
You have your commit somewhere in
there and you can go and find it,
it's a real thing, right?
Awesome, fantastic.
Here's just a version of this.
I go through all the exact
same steps right here.
There's my commit.
Little quick observation.
Everything inside the git.objects or
sorry, .git/objects directory will have
the first two letters of any SHA
that is being tracked by Git and
you can use that to find stuff if you're
to manually look through Git, all right?
That's where they're all stored,
that's where all of your changes and
everything are stored.
So, by the way I absolutely love,
this is like my favorite part of The
Hobbit was the what's in its pocketses?
I just love that part.
For those that don't know,
it's a fantastic scene where Bilbo has
the ring and needing to ask riddles and
if he gets a riddle wrong, he gets eaten.
And his last one isn't a riddle
he just said what's in my pocket?
Then Gollum goes crazy, and
that's the whole story.
That's how the Lord of the Rings happened
is because he wouldn't tell him what's
in his pocketses, it's crazy.
Anyways, all right, so
if I were to go here and
say git/objects/87 and cat this thing out,
it's a bunch of nonsense.
You can do the same thing, right?
You can't understand that five or
this commit from just getting stuff out.
It's been kind of, it's been compressed so
it's more space efficient.
So it's just nonsense to our eyes.
Here's my version right here.
Remember, all of git state is
stored in these files, all of it.
So our commit,
that's why our commits there.
All right, so some of the tools of a
plumber, there's a bunch of different ways
you can manually use tit command to
print out the contents of stuff.
But there's also cat-file -p, and
that will just print out any SHA you
want in the contents of that SHA.
If you actually use the actual Git
commands, there's a tree one for
printing out trees.
There's one for printing out
specific parts, or just this one.
I prefer just to use this cuz it's kind of
annoying to have to know all the little
subcommands.
I'm sure there's like a cost to it, which
is like Git has to figure out which SHA
you're actually talking about and the type
of SHA and then to uncompress it and
to give you this nice view and all that.
But just use this,
you can inspect any commit or
anything about Git by
using git cat-file -p.
So, I want you to cat file your shot and
see if you can get to
the point of being able to get
the contents out of first.md.
See if you can actually get
all the way down and find it,
by just catting out your SHA.